# BBSQP
BBSQP is a MATLAB implementation of an integrated approach for solving mixed integer nonlinear programming (MINLP) problems. The method is based on the Branch & Bound (BB) algorithm, but it does not require the relaxed nonlinear programming (NLP) to be solved at each node. Instead, early branching is applied to reduce the computational burden of this numerical method. Then, a Sequential Quadratic Programming (SQP) is used to solve the relaxed NLP.
## Instructions
In the Test_case/ folder, two toy problems are included to calibrate the SQP and BB algorithm successively. For the SQP, a spacecraft control problem with MPC framework is used. Please refer to homework 4 of AS740 at UMICH for more details. For the BB, the first test problem in "Duran M A, Grossmann I E. An outer-approximation algorithm for a class of mixed integer nonlinear programs[J]. Mathematical programming, 1986, 36(3): 307-339" is used.

In the Eco-coasting folder, the proposed BBSQP method is used to solve an eco-coasting problem. Herein, fuel cut-off strategy is proposed to reveal the potential benefit of eco-coasting using the road grade preview. Please refer to "Y. Yan et al., "Eco-Coasting Controller Using Road Grade Preview: Evaluation and Online Implementation Based on Mixed Integer Model Predictive Control," in IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 72, no. 10, pp. 12508-12523, Oct. 2023, doi: 10.1109/TVT.2023.3271656." for more information about the problem formulation.

Different computational acceleration strategies are applied to the solving process of the BBSQP solver for the eco-coasting problem. In this folder, branch on the best cost solution and the most fractional variable is chosen. In the Eco_coasting/Str1 folder, switch numbers constraints over the predictive horizon, infeasibility detection, and switch constraints are embedded in the branch and bound strategy to reduce the useless branch based on the physical knowledge of the plant. In the Eco_coasting/Str2, warm start, infeasibility detection, and switch constraints are used.
## Contributing
FBstab is used as the QP solver. We must give credit to Dr. Dom's work to make this algorithm works [https://github.com/dliaomcp/fbstab-matlab]. If you have any feedback, bug reports, or contributions, please feel free to submit them to the GitHub repository. We welcome your contributions to make this solver more efficient and effective.
